---
layout: post
title:  Möbius related things
date:   2023-06-08 00:00-00
description: Möbius inversion is very cool
tags: mathematics
---

One concept that I have been incredibly interested in but haven't been able to properly understand or apply is Möbius inversion. So, today, we will develop the notion of it in a series of notes with comprehensive descriptions. 
<br>
<br>
To begin, let's define what a multiplicative function, otherwise known as number-theoretic function, is. A number-theoretic function is a function that satisfies the property $$f(mn) = f(m)f(n)$$ for $$\text{gcd}(m,n)=1$$, or $$m,n$$ coprime. If this property holds for all such $$m$$ and $$n$$, then the function is completely multiplicative. We now introduce the Möbius function $$\mu(n)$$. 
<br>

$$
\begin{equation*}
\mu(n) = \left\{
\begin{array}{lr}
1 & \text{if} \ n=1 \\
0 & \text{if} \ p^{2}|n, \ p \ \text{prime} \\ 
(-1)^{l} & \text{if} \ n=p_{1}p_{2}\cdots p_{l}, \text{where} \ p_{i}\text{s are distinct}. 
\end{array}\right}
\end{equation*}
$$

<br>
The second property that $$\mu(n)=0$$ if $$p^{2}|n$$ can be restated as $$\mu(n)=0$$ is $$n$$ is not prime square-free, or it is divisible by the square of some prime. When we talk about number-theoretic functions, we will be using a funky looking sum. This sum is written as
<br>

$$
\sum_{d|n}f(d).
$$

<br>
Essentially, it takes the sum of the function $$f(d)$$ for $$d$$ that divides some pre-defined number $$n$$. For example, If $$f(d)=d$$ and $$n$$ is prime, then the only divisors of a prime number are $$1$$ and itself, so that $$\sum_{d|n}f(d) = n + 1$$. We now proceed to prove some important properties of multiplicative functions that will be useful when we confront Möbius Inversion. 
<br>
<br>
<b> Lemma </b>
<br>
<br>
Let $$f(n)$$ be a multiplicative function, and define a function 
<br>

$$
F(n) = \sum_{d|n}f(d).
$$

<br>
Then $$F(n)$$ is also a multiplicative function.
<br>
<br>
<i> Proof. </i> Let there exist $$m$$ and $$n$$ such that $$\text{gcd}(m,n)=1$$. Also, introduce two numbers $$r$$ and $$s$$. Then we can evaluate
<br>

$$
\begin{align*}
F(mn) &
= \sum_{d|mn}f(d) \\ & 
= \sum_{r|m, s|m}f(rs) \\ &
= \sum_{r|m, s|m}f(r)f(s) \\ &
= \sum_{r|m}f(r)\sum_{s|m}f(s) \\ &
= F(m)F(n),
\end{align*}
$$

<br>
which is the definition of multiplicativity for $$F$$. This third row follows because the fact that $$r|m$$ and $$s|n$$ implies that $$\text{gcd}(r,s)=1$$. This is not difficult to show. 
<br>
■














































