---
layout: post
title:  A new paper
date:   2024-10-02 00:00-00
description: publishing? what is that? 
tags: mathematics
---

The submission process is everything but familiar to me. While I did submit to the arXiv, the arXiv is not a peer-reviewed journal, unlike many other mathematical journals. Over the past two months I have been working carefully on a paper that relates closely to the topic in <i> On Finite Fields and Higher Reciprocity </i>, and I was debating whether to submit it to the American Mathematical Monthly (AMM) - a prestigious journal for expository articles that is well-respected in the math community - or another journal such as the Mathematics Magazine (MM). After much thought and revision (as well as some much-needed guidance), I decided that my article was not novel enough to warrant a place in AMM, but that it would perhaps be suitable for MM. So, today (or rather yesterday), I submitted my article to MM. 
<br>
<br>
Here are some thoughts that I have. First, I do not have incredibly high expectations for the publication of this article. While I know that MM is perhaps on the lower end of journals in general (despite featuring incredibly expository work), it still has a lower standard based in originality and novelty. While I think my paper certainly is interesting and would be appropriate to the readership of MM, I am not entirely sure. I guess we'll see. Second, publication takes a long time. The website for MM indicates that, on average, the first decision regarding an article will be 19 days. Now, this is kind of arbitrary - it can take far longer or far less time. Looking back at previously published articles, it seems that people took anywhere from a few weeks to an entire year to publish. That's a long time. I guess we'll see how long this takes!
<br>
<br>
If the paper is rejected from MM, I can still possibly publish in a different undergraduate journal - we'll see. Either way, I'm going to post this paper on the arXiv at some point. I will update this page if anything happens. 
<br>
<br>
(2 October, 2024)
<br>
<br>
The paper is now informally available on this website. I am still awaiting notice from MM. 
<br>
<br>
(11 October, 2024)