---
layout: post
title:  Journeys VII
date:   2025-07-01 00:00-00
description: meanderings about life
tags: journeys
---

Your most treasured memories from when you were young are those that relate to your aspirations, your desires, your imaginations. There is melancholy in the thought that you once had some set of ideals and ideas, yet now you harbor those no longer. I think it's worth grasping onto memories like those—they give you something to stand on when you're peering afar.

I think something that has troubled humanity for so long—mathematician or not—is simple: the end of life. We all know that life is finite, and things must live and die. It's just that once you construct a society so elaborate and beautiful and ugly... you start to wonder: <i> what is death? </i> These thoughts are not those of old men approaching the final fraction of their life—instead, they're manifestations of curiosity that arise in the first fraction of life. Society runs along and these people grow old, entering new fractions of their lives, and this question really just disappears. Then they, themselves, in the finality of the final fraction of their lives, lie upon their deathbed, thinking: <i> what do I want to be played at my funeral? Something cheery like Tchaikovsky's? Holst's Jupiter? What about something like the second movement of Ravel's 2nd piano concerto?  </i> They find that they really haven't thought about it. 

Is it sensible to fear death?

I can be brave and say I don't. It's the cycle of life, and why should I care if I eventually rot—it's bound to happen! You will die. I will die. They will die. We will all die! And I think I won't for many many years. I might have moments of deep introspection where I wonder what death truly is and look at it in the face, but I think only in the last chapter will I think about it every day. I think we all become religious when death is very near. We abandon any philosophy that points to human achievement and remembrance as the ultimate testament to human purpose, whether in life or death—we wonder, <i> how will I be remembered? </i> The arrogant and achieved of our species will proudly claim how their achievements or their works will propel them forward into the history books of the future, immortalised, memorised, and forever internalised. I think even they start to think about how non-immortal they really are. And the rest, or the 99.999% of humanity that doesn't do the same, what about them? 



Most will have a small funeral. Their parents died decades ago. Their children have grown old, starting to grow gray hairs. Their friends passed like fireflies, flickering now and again in time, eventually fading away too. If illness and disease haven't taken them, it is the grief that will. Everything one has done begins to appear again and again in the mind. And then that's it. There